---
layout: post
title:  "Let's get into things"
---

I got some time today so I thought why not start off what I was bravely announcing last year.  
Suffice to say these solutions and thoughts are spoilers for the puzzles shown.

## Day 1/25 2015
Let me describe the problem for [day 1](https://adventofcode.com/2015/day/1) really quickly.  
This character `(` is set to count as `+1` while this character `)` counts as `-1`.   
The input is one line with a lot of these characters and the question is to calculate the overall score. 

In my solution I counted the occurence of `(` and subtracted the count of `)`.  
```py
amount_of_plus = lines[0].count('(')
amount_of_minus = lines[0].count(')')
result = amount_of_plus - amount_of_minus
```

As far as I have seen in the solution megathread, there were no solutions that used regex in Python.  
Granted back in those days people were using Python 2.7 and did not really try to optimize their solutions like they do nowadays.  

---

For part 2 the problem was to figure out the position of the character that first went into the negatives.  
Obviously the simple counting would not lead to a solution. An iteration is needed!  

```py
for index, character in enumerate(lines[0]):
    floor += directions[character]
    if floor == -1:
        return index + 1 # because python is indexed at 0
```

Again, using enumerate helps with keeping track of the index while iterating over the characters.  
Most of the solutions were using Python2 however I found one person who also used Python 3 and produced this solution:

```py
list(itertools.accumulate([1 if b == '(' else -1 for x in in_string])).index(-1) + 1
```

The [itertools](https://docs.python.org/3/library/itertools.html) are a very powerful library to help with iteration problems.  
However, this solution is still iterating over each item and then calculating the values and returning the index - so technically, I'm good on these ones!

Ha, my first write-up - very fun!  
See you around!

``` py
enigm4tik
``` 

## Links
[My solution](https://github.com/enigm4tik/advent-of-code/blob/main/2015/day01/day01.py)
[Solution Megathread](https://www.reddit.com/r/programming/comments/3uyl7s/daily_programming_puzzles_at_advent_of_code/)
